Lyndon Tremblay

  175 Stewart St, Peterborough, Ontario
  E: quakerquickoats@gmail.com

-------------

Professional Summary

  Experienced and accomplished programmer with 25 years of experience in development of various kinds of software. Excellent in every stage of the life cycle of software development; including design, coding, debugging, testing, and maintenance. Expert in devising innovative and and efficiently tailored solutions to assist and inspire businesses to achieve their goals in a variety of industries. Well-polished skill, application and knowledge of both leading and unfamiliar development tools and technologies with a strong background in linguistics, geometry and mathematics, data-processing, logic and iteration strategies.

Skills

  - All phases of Software Development, including Brainstorming, Architecture and Design, Project Management and Version Control, Technical Documentation, marketing and community maintenance, priority arrangement and knowing well the place and function of each piece in the whole picture concerning goals and concerns.
  - Programming languages include but not limited to: C/C++/Objective-C, VB/C#/Scala/F#/ASP.NET, HTML5/CSS3/JS, Haskell, Common Lisp, Scheme, Erlang, shell scripting, SQL, Objective-Caml, Standard ML, Reason/React, Smalltalk, Prolog, and various others such as Python, Java, Lua, Go, Ruby, etc.
  - Ability to work in the following computing environments: Modern Web, MacOS, UNIX, Linux, and Windows.
  - Precise and quick decision maker; critical awareness, and creative designer with the ability to think through and around problems to most effective solutions to problems, along with reinforcing existing traditions and enhancing or complimenting what already works well.
  - Project and platform evaluation to identify whole system performance and implementation and the most optimal course of action for improving or correcting performance and reception based upon either specific or abstract goals.

----------- Work Experience ------------

  1994-1998
  Game Modifications and Hacks:
    Doom total-conversion mod, Quake mods, Abuse; DoomEd and QuakeEd map editor source code ports and modifications, some Wolfenstein 3D modifications. 
  Open Source Projects, patches and fixes:
    GNUstep (many enhancements), Squeak, Linux, GCC Obj-C runtime, Mesa GL software graphics rendering library, Blender (later in 2000).


  1998
  Mary McFarland, Bioinformatics Inc. (Victoria, BC)
	Programmer and Engineer,
	Developed in-house revision-based [scheduled] and networked backup software from scratch in C for their Linux and Windows NT computers.


  1998-2000
  Government of Victoria B.C.
    Develop, upgrade, and maintain advanced financial industry software.
    Coordinate the design and implementation of various applications, including collaboration with project managers, and client representative and development teams.
    Provide mentoring services to junior developers as needed.
    Select projects include the design and development of a flagship financial trading application, a content distribution server, and business systems for clients in a variety of industries.


  Personal Projects
  1996-2004
    Designed, written and developed several 3D modelers and rendering engines,
    mostly C and OpenGL, experimenting and studying mathematics, geometry and real time systems and compilers.

  Epic Megagames
  2002
    Developed a plugin for converting models from 3DS Max.

  IMVU Inc  (Remote)
  2003?
	"Programmer" for Don J Carson
	Write tools to convert popular 3D model file formats to proprietary format, for their 3D networked social chat, using Python and C++, Blender, Google SketchUp, custom programs and tools.

  Brent Welke, QLogics Inc. (Victoria BC)
  2002-2006
    "Website designer, programmer, remote and local admin"
	-Development, migration, deployment of web sites
	-Server side programming, administration, metrics and database management
    -Several websites and web servers using ASP.NET and other Windows Server technology for various local public institutions and clients, including BC Ferries.

  2008
  Aiding PhD of University of Hamilton to develop thesis and software for the CELL microprocessor for a collaborative IDE and compiling suite in Squeak Smalltalk.

  Open Source and Personal Projects 
  2006-2010
    Designed and developed from-scratch real time graphics engine and built-in editing modeler in Haskell. Web page is now defunct, screenshots can be provided. ("HS-Nova")
    Begun work on a ObjC and GNU Smalltalk mixed-language runtime and parsing bridge to allow both languages to interoperate seamlessly.
    Written an efficient graphics rendering library in Obj-C for both iOS and macOS game development, deployed a couple of iOS game demo apps. ("TheMiddle")

  2011-2012
    Design and develop an Erlang multi-MMO game server hosting system. Ported existing game server and took over maintenance, as well as porting another well-known MMO game server into the system. ("erl-dev") Generates JavaScript with Common Lisp for the front end.

  Membase/CouchDB (Silicon Valley)
  2010-2011
    Developed JavaScript/HTML5/CSS3 visualization for server database cluster migration, with Erlang backend. The technical audience receiving the demonstration was impressed and I was offered an honorary Bachelor Degree of Computer Science, in order to obtain Work Visa to live in SoCal at company-paid residence. (However, due to their lawyer providing the incorrect large stack of forms for application, during this 2-week delay -- the two companies merged and restructured.)

  Frostlight.SE   (Sweden remote)
    Kriss Krostoffer
  2010-2012
    Develop iOS app for Augmented Reality, bugfix several existing apps on the store, collaborate with clients and budget management.

  Sammy & Sons (Peterborough Ontario)
  2011-2012
    Technical lead and main programmer for a new from-scratch SEO system for a startup web design and marketing company (now named "Marketing.INK")
    
---------------

Hobbies and Interests

When I am not sitting in front of a computer monitor, I like to meditate, go for walks, excersize and read and study, and some yoga. I currently volunteer my time several times a week to the local churches and various community events. I particularily enjoy studying languages and other cultures most of all, as well as psychology and mental illnesses. I've spent most of my life on the computer, and had a recent hiatus from computers so I've had many great opportunities to learn much of the spectrum of the human condition; and now to reapproach technology understanding both sides of things, which is where I am now; mediating the great compromise between Man and Machine. I've played a lot of electric guitar, piano, drums and bongos, and I am also very musically inclined. Studied much Buddhism and Judaism, Taoism and Hinduism.
